DEVDOCS-3021: Add-examples-channel-webhooks (#1458)
bigcommerce/dev-docs: docs/api-docs/channels/channel-webhooks.md

To learn more about sales channels, see the [Channels Overview](/api-docs/channels/guide/overview). To learn more about how sales channels function in the context of multi-storefront or multi-channel sales, see the [channels section of the Multi-Storefront Overview](/api-docs/multi-storefront/overview#channels).

There are three kinds of webhooks events that relate to channels: settings, product assignment, and channel event webhooks.

> ## Creating a webhook

Reviewer: @traci707 it would be great if we could add an example of creating scopes for a specific channel and also give an explanation that `store/channel/{channel_id}/cart/created` e.g. here `{channel_id}` is a placeholder to add `channel_id` of channel they would like to subscribe to receive each of the events :)

Author: @kristinapototska I added an example, can you take a look?

Reviewer 2: @traci707 @kristinapototska I don't love that we are duplicating information that is presented clearly, efficiently, and in greater detail in the [Webhooks Overview](https://github.com/bigcommerce/dev-docs/pull/1458/files#diff-b939035873497898af2c6147947e37718075bd54917b2e760c542067432a3ea4R13). What is wrong with [the version of this that links instead of duplicating](https://github.com/bigcommerce/dev-docs/pull/1458/files/64d406449c567f03291a7d4aa885a36f305b65de..2a24c69cf7678ec98c179e0c1ea40ef006a3549b#diff-7fb5b3279491fae2946e5efaf437560f0e1b606edc750c852cfe3e4730a12aebL11) along with a callout about replacing placeholders?

# Channel Webhooks

Developers building third-party sales channels or multi-storefront capabilities might need notification when a channel in BigCommerce changes so that they can perform downstream actions required to set up or deactivate the channel. To facilitate this, we've added `store/channel` webhook events that fire when you create or update a channel. This article assumes that you're familiar with webhooks. It introduces channel-related events and is a reference for all BigCommerce channel webhook events and their callback payloads. For an introduction to webhooks on BigCommerce, see [Webhooks Overview](/api-docs/store-management/webhooks/overview#callback-payload). For a more general introduction to webhooks, see [Webhooks Overview](/api-docs/getting-started/webhooks/about-webhooks).

To learn more about sales channels, see the [Channels Overview](/api-docs/channels/guide/overview). To learn more about how sales channels function in the context of multi-storefront or multi-channel sales, see the [channels section of the Multi-Storefront Overview](/api-docs/multi-storefront/overview#channels).

## Creating a webhook

> To create a webhook, send a request to the [Create a webhook](/api-reference/store-management/webhooks/webhooks/createwebhooks) endpoint. Follow the process described in the [Webhooks Overview](/api-docs/getting-started/webhooks/about-webhooks#creating-a-webhook), but in this case, you will need to add the `channel_id` to subscribe to events per specific channel. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To create a webhook, send a request to the [Create a webhook](/api-reference/store-management/webhooks/webhooks/createwebhooks) endpoint. Follow the process described in the [Webhooks Overview](/api-docs/getting-started/webhooks/about-webhooks#creating-a-webhook), and include a `channel_id` where indicated to subscribe to that channel's events.
```

 "created_at": 1641641646,
 "scope": "store/channel/1/category/created",
 "data": {
    "category_id": 35,
    "tree_id": 1
  },
 "hash": "3f9ea420af83450d7ef9f78b08c8af25b2213637"
}
 ```
## Category tree

The following category tree webhook event fires in response to actions that affect a specific channel on a store:

| Name / Scope | Description | Corresponding Endpoint |
|:-------------|:------------|:-----------------------|
| store/channel/{channel_id}/categoryTree/updated     |Fires when a site is updated, created, or deleted for a given channel. | [Upsert category trees](/api-reference/store-management/catalog/category-trees/upsertcategorytrees) or [Delete category trees](/api-reference/store-management/catalog/category-trees/deletecategorytrees) |

<!-- theme: info -->
> You must include the `tree_id` in the payload.

Category tree payload objects take the form that follows:

```json title="Example Category tree profile payload object" lineNumbers
{
 "store_id": "11111",
 "producer": "stores/abcde",
 "created_at": 1641641646,
 "scope": "store/channel/1/categoryTree/updated",
 "data": {
    "tree_id": 1
  },
 "hash": "3f9ea420af83450d7ef9f78b08c8af25b2213637"
}
 ```

> ## Order

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Orders

```

> ## Product assignment

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Product assignments

```

| store/channel/{channel_id}/category/product/assigned   | Fires when a product is assigned to a category in the specified channel's category tree | [Create product category assignments](/api-reference/store-management/catalog/products-category-assignments/createproductscategoryassignments) |
| store/channel/{channel_id}/category/product/unassigned | Fires when a product is removed from a category in the specified channel's category tree | [Delete product category assignments](/api-reference/store-management/catalog/products-category-assignments/deleteproductscategoryassignments) |

Product assignment payload objects take the form that follows:

```json title="Example product assignment payload object" lineNumbers
{
 "store_id": "11111",
 "producer": "stores/abcde",
 "created_at": 1641641646,
 "scope": "store/channel/1/product/assigned",
 "data": {
    "product_id": 127
  },
 "hash": "3f9ea420af83450d7ef9f78b08c8af25b2213637"
}
 ```
## Settings

> The following settings webhook event fires in response to actions that affect a specific channel on a store:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following settings webhook events fire in response to actions that affect a specific channel on a store:

```

| store/channel/{channel_id}/settings/product/updated | Fires when product settings were updated per given channel. | [Update storefront product settings](/api-reference/store-management/settings/storefront-product/updatestorefrontproductsettings) |
| store/channel/{channel_id}/settings/catalog/updated | Fires when catalog settings were updated per given channel. | [Update catalog settings](/api-reference/store-management/settings/catalog/putcatalogsettings) |
| store/channel/{channel_id}/notifications/inventory/updated | Fires when inventory notification settings were updated per given channel. | [Update inventory notifications settings](/api-reference/store-management/settings/inventory/putinventorynotificationssettings) |

Settings payload objects take the form that follows:

```json title="Example settings profile payload object" lineNumbers
{
 "store_id": "11111",
 "producer": "stores/abcde",
 "created_at": 1641641646,
 "scope": "store/channel/1/settings/profile/updated",
 "data": {},
 "hash": "3f9ea420af83450d7ef9f78b08c8af25b2213637"
}
 ```
 

>  ## Site

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 ## Sites

```

> The following settings webhook event fires in response to actions that affect a specific channel on a store:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following sites webhook events fire in response to actions that affect a site associated with a specific channel on a store:

```

| store/channel/{channel_id}/settings/site/updated       | Fires when a site is updated, created, or deleted for a given channel | [Update a channel site](/api-reference/store-management/channels/channel-site/put-channel-site), [Update a site](/api-reference/store-management/sites/sites/put-site), [Create a channel site](/api-reference/store-management/channels/channel-site/postchannelsite), [Create a site](/api-reference/store-management/sites/sites/post-site), [Delete a channel site](/api-reference/store-management/channels/channel-site/deletechannelschannelidsite), or [Delete a site](/api-reference/store-management/sites/sites/delete-site) |
| store/channel/{channel_id}/settings/route/updated | Fires when a site is created, updated, or deleted for a given channel | [Create a site route](/api-reference/store-management/sites/site-routes/post-site-route), [Update site's routes](/api-reference/store-management/sites/site-routes/putsitessiteidroutes), [Update a site route](/api-reference/b3A6MzU5MDUxMDA-update-a-site-route), or [Delete a site route](/api-reference/b3A6MzU5MDUxMDE-delete-a-site-route) |

<!-- theme: info -->
> You must include the `site_id` in the payload.

> > 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

* `is_enabled` (to be deprecated)
* `config_meta`

> ## Creating webhook

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Creating webhook

```
Did you intend for this to be a subheader of Channel-related webhook?

To create a webhook that subscribes to channel events, send a `POST` request to the [Create a webhook](/api-reference/webhooks/webhooks/createwebhooks) endpoint. Set the `scope` property value equal to the **Name / Scope** of the webhook you want to create.

```http title="Example request: Create a webhook" lineNumbers
POST https://api.bigcommerce.com/stores/{{STORE_HASH}}/v3/hooks
X-Auth-Token: {{ACCESS_TOKEN}}
Content-Type: application/json
Accept: application/json

{
  "scope": "store/channel/updated",
  "destination": "https://yourapp.example.com/webhooks", // custom ports are not supported
  "is_active": true,
  "headers": {}
}
```

To learn more about creating webhooks, see the [Webhooks Tutorial](/api-docs/store-management/webhooks/tutorial).

> ## Callbacks

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Callbacks

```
Needs another hash if it should be a subheader of Channel-related webhook

| store/channel/{channel_id}/product/assigned            | Fires when a product is assigned to the specified channel | [Create product channel assignments](/api-reference/store-management/catalog/products-channel-assignments/createproductchannelassignments) |
| store/channel/{channel_id}/product/unassigned          | Fires when a product is removed from the specified channel | [Delete product channel assignments](/api-reference/store-management/catalog/products-channel-assignments/deleteproductchannelassignments) |
| store/channel/{channel_id}/category/product/assigned   | Fires when a product is assigned to a category in the specified channel's category tree | [Create product category assignments](/api-reference/store-management/catalog/products-category-assignments/createproductscategoryassignments) |
| store/channel/{channel_id}/category/product/unassigned | Fires when a product is removed from a category in the specified channel's category tree | [Delete product category assignments](/api-reference/store-management/catalog/products-category-assignments/deleteproductscategoryassignments) |

### Creating

> To create a webhook that subscribes to channel events, send a `POST` request to the [Create a webhook](/api-reference/webhooks/webhooks/createwebhooks) endpoint. Set the `scope` property value equal to the **Name / Scope** of the webhook you want to create.

Reviewer: @traci707 I think it's worth calling out here that consumers need to use not only Name and Scope as perviously but also related `channel_id` to subscribe to the events per specific channel. This is new and I think this is worth explaining in the documentation
